Privacy Policy Definition for Connectathon Testing (used in testing the BPPC & APPC Profiles)Introduction:The Connectathon Managers set policy for the XDS Affinity Domain(s) at the Connectathon, including these two APPC & BPPC-related items:1.	They determine the codes accepted by the Registries (ie codes.xml from the NIST XDS Toolkit) including valid confidentialityCode values to include in XDS metadata, and the meaning associated with those codes.  For the Connectathon these values are defined:•	  <Code code="N" display="normal" codingScheme="2.16.840.1.113883.5.25" /> •	Normal confidentiality rules (according to good health care practice) apply. That is, only authorized individuals with a legitimate medical or business need may access this item.   Documents created by Doc Sources and PMCs should contain this code unless a test indicates otherwise.•	  <Code code="R" display="restricted" codingScheme="2.16.840.1.113883.5.25" /> •	Restricted access, e.g. only to providers having a current care relationship to the patient.  For the Connectathon, an “R” document is only created when a test instructs a Source to do so.•	  <Code code="V" display="very restricted" codingScheme="2.16.840.1.113883.5.25" /> •	Very restricted access as declared by the Privacy Officer of the record holder. For the Connectathon, a “V” document is only created when a test instructs a Source to do so.•	  <Code code="U" display="unrestricted" codingScheme="2.16.840.1.113883.5.25" /> •	Code to indicate that information contained in the document is not classified as sensitive.2.	They define a Patient Privacy Consent Policy for testing the APPC & BPPC profiles, and the BPPC-related options in other profiles and the sharing rules associated with that policy.  For the Connectathon this is an artificial policy, but it creates conditions which make BPPC testable.  Details follow.Connectathon Affinity Domain Privacy Consent Policy:The foundational Connectathon Privacy Consent Policy is identified by:  urn:connectathon:bppc:foundational:policyThis Connectathon Privacy Consent Policy has two components:1.	By default, in this Connectathon affinity domain, document sharing is based on the value of Confidentiality Code (DocumentEntry.confidentialityCode): •	Documents with a confidentiality code of "U" (unrestricted) are always shared.   Patients are not allowed to “Opt-Out” nor allowed to apply a more restrictive policy to these documents.•	Documents with a confidentialityCode of “N” (normal) are always shared unless a patient selects a more restrictive APPC policy.•	Documents with a confidentialityCode of “R” (restricted) are not shared are not shared **unless** a patient explicitly “Opts in”, by submitting a BPPC Acknowledgement Document for “OPT-IN” (via a Content Creator in the BPPC Profile; see section below).•	Documents with a confidentialityCode of “V” (very restricted) are never shared, even if a patient also chooses a less restrictive policy. This is an artificial condition that enables testing.2.	In the Connectathon Affinity Domain, the following policy a Patient may optionally choose to “OPT-IN” to this policy:Connectathon Affinity DomainPatient Privacy Consent PolicyIn this Connectathon Affinity Domain, healthcare data is contained in exclusively in documents shared via the XDS.b, XDR, or XDM profiles.  The Patient agrees to share documents with a confidentialityCode of “R”.The confidentialityCode is contained in a document’s XDS metadata.Also,  for the Connectathon “XUA_Policy_Test”, we state that “InternetProtocol” is an invalid authentication method in our affinity domain.